hi i'm michael breen with EV West and
today we have a treat for you we have a
1963 Volkswagen classic beetle that we
just converted for a customer and we
want to take a little bit of time to
show you some of the nice features of
this car let's check it out alright so
here we are at the front of our beetle
and the nice thing about this conversion
is we utilize the factory gas tank
location we removed it and created a
custom battery box it actually uses the
factory bolt locations for the gas tank
so we didn't have to drill any holes or
do any modifications to the front and
what we did was we managed to fit a
spare tire in here which is kind of rare
amongst Volkswagen conversions we also
have our aluminum battery box up here
that's custom-made to fit in here and we
have our little marine board lid I'm
going to take this off for you and you
can take a look we have our box in here
we have our fuse inside the battery box
we have our steel hold downs and our
6061 aluminum battery straps makes for a
really clean really efficient setup in
the front of this car that's about all
there is to see up here I know some of
you guys in the last video we're asking
to really see the batteries there they
are again not much to see but let's go
take a look at the back of the car where
the motor and the rest of the components
are well if you've never done an
electric car before we estimate that
this is a one to two week conversion
with our kit it's a straight drop in kit
everything bolts in and there's very
very minimal altercation to the car we
really like to see that so here we are
taking a look at the dashboard and
you'll notice we really maintained a
factory look we just have one gauge in
there just to the right of the
speedometer we've installed a zantrex
link Pro and of course this gives us our
voltage and state of charge and other
important details about the battery pack
okay so here we are at our rear battery
box this is situated right behind the
rear seat and it really doesn't take up
much cabin space so it's a nice and
convenient back here we've currently got
the lid off the box so you can see some
of the detail work inside the battery
compartment alright so here we are back
at the engine compartment on our
Volkswagen and this is where this
conversion really shines we spend a lot
of time back here on aesthetics to
really make the engine compartment look
clean so we're going to take a look at
some of the components starting
the top we have our PFC 2500 charger by
alcon great little charger we can charge
it 110 volts and 220 this conversion is
equipped with a level 2 j1772 charge
port right here so it's nice and
accessible for the customer we have our
DC converter over here in the back
corner and then we have our liquid
cooling our radiator vents and our pump
and reservoir over here and that liquid
cools our Curtis 1238 6501 controller
with our AC 50 AC motor underneath it so
what we did is we really spend a lot of
time cleaning this up we have this kit
this will be available online at EV West
calm and you can basically do the same
thing to your bug make it nice and clean
and mean as ever alright let's go for a
ride in this thing and check it out see
what it's really like alright so here we
are getting ready to take a little drive
in the bug again no starting the engine
just turn the key on put in first gear
we're ready to go just like that again
we're not using the clutch we don't have
to feather the clutch when we roll away
it's nice thing about this you know
online we get a lot of questions that
people ask about transmissions and why
we like them why we use them we really
prefer a car with a manual transmission
that way you can kind of adjust the gear
to the speed that you drive and the
amount of torque that you need at the
moment generally speaking you kind of
just leave it in one or two gears
usually like second or third gear you
know these little AC motors are so
torquay you can actually start off in
third gear which is kind of nice that
way you don't have to shift you don't
have to worry about using the clutch we
have customers who don't even know how
to use a standard transmission and they
have no problem driving electric car so
that's kind of nice to know so here i am
in third gear i'm just gonna give it gas
we're just going to cruise away again
there's just no lack of power no lack of
acceleration third gear will take you
all the way up to 60 miles an hour in
this car so really not much of a need to
spend a lot of time shifting and finding
that perfect year now I gotta tell you
in my younger days I spend a lot of time
and Volkswagens but never liked them as
much as this one they're always slow and
stinky
cetera but this car is great nice and
quiet plenty of power it just surges
when you hit the pedal and really
starting to think I should be in a
Volkswagen again all right well that
about wraps up our drive in our 1963
volkswagen beetle i gotta say i'm really
liking this car i don't want to give it
back to the customer but well I guess I
got to anyways let's head back to the
shop and finish up this walkthrough man
I got to tell you before we get back to
the shop here you know we we have a lot
of opportunities to drive a lot of
different cars here at EV West and this
one it just really speaks to your soul
it is just so much fun there's something
about it it's light its maneuverable
it's a great little chassis you know
Volkswagens have been around forever
anybody can work on them and this is a
perfect platform for a DIY electric car
conversion
alright well that concludes our video
walkthrough of our 1963 volkswagen
beetle for more updates on vehicles that
we're doing check us out at EV West com
or follow us on facebook at facebook.com
slash electric vehicle West for EV West
i'm michael breen and we'll see you next
time